---
layout: groups_nav
collection-title: Priority Ionic
permalink: /
group: none
title: Intro
subjects:
    - Overview
    - Getting started
---
# Priority Ionic Mobile Library

Priority Software is prowd to introduce Priority Ionic - the mobile app development library for building Priority mobile apps.

Priority Ionic is built on top of Angular, Ionic and the [Priority Web SDK](/api), all put together to create the best development library for Priority in mobile. It provides a set of powerful services along with useful components that make building Ionic apps integrating with Priority easier than ever.

Priority Ionic was built because we know that nower days mobile usage is overtaking desktop. We surely aim to give our users a wide set of mobile apps fully connected and synchronized with their business systems. To achieve this we need you, developers, put some effort in building apps integrating with Priority. So that's were Priority Ionic comes in. We've chosen the Ionic framework because we like their design and think building mobile apps has never been so fast and easy. And to make things even easier we have created this core library with abilities you possibly will need to develop your app.

Priority Ionic is totally [open source](https://github.com/PrioritySoftware/priority-ionic) and ready for you to use and customize:)

You're also more than welcome contributing by [opening issues](https://github.com/PrioritySoftware/priority-ionic/issues/new) or submitting pull requests.

<a name="Overview"/>
## Overview

The purpose of Priority Ionic is providing an easy, customizable and generic mobile library on top of [Priority's Web SDK](/api).

Priority Ionic is made out of different types of building blocks such as services, components, popup handlers and more. All interact together and exported as the `PriorityIonicModule`.

**Services** - services are provided for all the Priority Web SDK methods and entities, such as the Form and Procedure. They stand as high-level api's with addition of other important functionalities. The services, also could be called data-services, are singletons provided at the module level so data could be shared between all components.

**Components** - high-level components are provided to display and interact with the Priority Web SDK's entities. They interface as Ionic UI components with additional logic adjusted to Priority's data structure. The components are better defined as 'smart' components, because they interact directly with the data services mentioned above.

**Popup handlers** - messages, loading and other popup handlers are provided for displaying Priority's server messages and loading indicators while interacting with the Priority backend.

**Entities** - typescript interfaces are provided for all the Priority Web SDK's entities, such as the Form, Procedure, Server messages and much more. These allow you to easily use type checking when using the Priority Web SDK entities.

They are also low-level directives and components used underneath, that are provided for better customization.

Check out the [services docs](/priority-ionic/Services) to learn how to integrate priority into your app and getting started with real data. Then head over to the [components docs](/priority-ionic/Components) to see what each component looks like and to learn how to use each one.

<a name="Getting_started"/>
## Getting started

First install Priority Ionic package via npm:

```bash
$ npm install priority-ionic --save
```
<br/>
Then add the `PriorityIonicModule` to your app's module imports:

```js
import { PriorityIonicModule } from 'priority-ionic';

@NgModule({
  ...
  imports: [
    PriorityIonicModule,
    IonicModule.forRoot(AppComponent)
  ],
  ...
})
export class AppModule {}
```

Thats it! you are now ready to go.



