---
layout: groups_nav
collection-title: Priority Ionic
permalink: /Services/FormService
group: Services
title: FormService
---

<a class="anchor-link" name="FormService"></a>
## FormService
The form service is an angular service that constitutes as a high level api on top of the [Priority Web SDK](/api) for forms. It provides functions that perform several related actions on a form for easier usage of the SDK. 

It also deals with storing localy the form's data that was retrieved, to enable sharing it between different pages and components in your app.

Another great built in feature of the `FormService` is that it handles all massages returned by the server from the [`MessagesCallback`](/api/global/#MessagesCallback), by alerting them using the [`MessageHandler`](/app/handlers/#MessageHandler).

In addition it also handles updating the local form's data returned by the server from the [`UpdateFormCallback`](/api/global/#UpdateFormCallback), making sure your local data is always up to date.
<br/>
#### Usage
```js



```
<br/>

#### Instance Members
<br/>
##### Form

`getForm(formName: string): Form`

<i class="arrow"/>Returns the local [`Form`](/app/entities/#Form) that is stored.


<br/>
`startParentForm(formName: string, company: string, autoRetriveFirstRows?: number): Promise<From>`

Starts a parent form and stores the form object localy.

<i class="arrow"/>Returns `Promise` - that resolves to the [`Form`](/app/entities/#Form) started.

<br/>

`startFormAndGetRows(formName: string, company: string, filter: Filter = null, autoRetriveFirstRows?: number): Promise<any>`

Starts a parent form and retrieves its rows according to the given filter if there is one. Stores the form and rows localy.

<i class="arrow"/>Returns `Promise` - that resolves to the [`Form`](/app/entities/#Form) started.

<br/>
`endForm(form: Form): Promise<any>`
Ends the from.


<br/>
##### Form Rows

`getLocalRows(form: Form)`

<i class="arrow"/>Returns the local [`Rows`](/app/entities/#Row) that are stored for this form.

<br/>
`getRows(form: Form, fromRow: number, isMerge: boolean = true): Promise<any>`

Retrives the next 115 rows of the form, from the row number, according to the filter set if there is one.

Stores the rows localy, if `isMerge` is `true`, it merges it with the local rows that already exist (good when retriving more rows), and if it `false` it replaces them.

<i class="arrow"/> Returns `Promise` - that resolves with the [`Rows`](/app/entities/#Row).

<br/>
`clearRows(form: Form): Promise<any>`

Clears rows of a given form.

<i class="arrow"/> Returns `Promise` - with an empty object.

<br/>
`getRowsAndReplace(form: Form): Promise<any>`

Clears rows of a given form and then retrieves new ones.

<i class="arrow"/> Returns `Promise` - that resolves with the new [`Rows`](/app/entities/#Row).

<br/>

##### Form Row

`getFormRow(form: Form, rowInd)`

<i class="arrow"/>Returns the local [`Row`](/app/entities/#Row) that is stored for this form.

<br/>
`setIsRowChangesSaved(form: Form, rowInd, isSaved: boolean)`
`getIsRowChangesSaved(form: Form, rowInd)`
`getIsNewRow(form: Form, rowInd)`
`setNotNewRow(form: Form, rowInd)`

Should be changes to `setKey`, `getKey` and `deleteKey`!!!

<br/>
`deleteLastFormRow(form: Form)`

Deletes the **local** last form row, It is used mainly as a workaround for some issues where the local rows are updated....



<br/>
`setActiveRow(form: Form, rowInd): Promise<any>`

Actives the given index row in the form.

<i class="arrow"/> Returns `Promise` - with empty object.

<br/>
`updateField(form: Form, newValue, columnName): Promise<any>`

Update a field's value for the *current activate* row in the form.

<i class="arrow"/> Returns `Promise` - with empty object.

<br/>
`saveRow(form: Form, rowInd, isBackToPrevForm: number): Promise<any>`

Saves all the updates that were made for the *current activate* row.

<i class="arrow"/> Returns `Promise` - with empty object.

<br/>
`undoRow(form: Form): Promise<any>`

Undoes all updates made for the current activate row.

<i class="arrow"/> Returns `Promise` - with empty object.

<br/>
`newRow(form: Form): Promise<any>`

Creats a new row and adds it to the given form rows.

<i class="arrow"/> Returns `Promise` - that resolves with the new row's index.

<br/>
`deleteRow(form: Form): Promise<any>`

Delets the *current activate* row from the given form.

<i class="arrow"/> Returns `Promise` - with empty object.

<br/>
`deleteListRow(form: Form, rowInd): Promise<any>`

Delets the given index row from the form.

<i class="arrow"/> Returns `Promise` - with empty object.

<br/>
##### Search and Choose

<br/>
`openSearchOrChoose(form: Form, colName, fieldVal): Promise<any>`

Opens a Search or a Choose list for a feild according to the `colName` given.

The Search or a Choose will open on the *current activate* row.

If there is a value in the field the returned list will contain results matching this value.

**Note**: A different `fieldVal` than the current value in the field will cause an update to the field's value.


<i class="arrow"/> Returns a `Promise` that resolves to a [SearchResult](/app/entities/#SearchResult) object.

<br/>
/** Returns search results for the given value. */
search(form: Form, value: string): Promise<any>

Performs a search on the opened Search list according to the given `value`.

<i class="arrow"/> Returns a `Promise` with the search results.

<br/>

##### SubForms

<br/>

`startSubform(parentForm: Form, subformName: string, onWarnings = null): Promise<any>`

Starts 'subformName' subForm of the `parentForm` .
{
    return new Promise((resolve, reject) =>
    {
        let onErrorOrWarning;
        if (onWarnings == null)
        {
            onErrorOrWarning = this.errorAndWarningMsgHandler;
        }
        else
        {
            onErrorOrWarning = onWarnings;
        }
        parentForm.startSubForm(subformName,
            onErrorOrWarning,
            null,
            (subform: Form) =>
            {
                this.mergeForm(subform);
                resolve(this.getForm(subform.name));
            },
            (reason: ServerResponse) =>
            {
                this.rejectionHandler(reason, reject);
            });
    });
}
/** Starts 'subformName' subForm and retrieves its rows. */
startSubFormAndGetRows(parentForm: Form, subformName, onWarnings = null): Promise<Form>
{
    return new Promise((resolve, reject) =>
    {
        this.startSubform(parentForm, subformName, onWarnings).then(
            (subform: Form) =>
            {
                this.getRows(subform, 1, false).then(
                    rows =>
                    {
                        resolve(subform);
                    },
                    (reason: ServerResponse) => 
                    {
                        this.endForm(subform).then(
                            () =>
                            {
                                this.rejectionHandler(reason, reject);
                            },
                            reason =>
                            {
                                this.rejectionHandler(reason, reject);
                            });
                    });
            },
            (reason: ServerResponse) => 
            {
                this.rejectionHandler(reason, reject);
            });
    })
}

/**
 * Starts sub form.
 * Then gets its rows.
   Then ends subform.
   Then starts the next sub form if exists.
 */
getOneSubForm(parentForm: Form, subformNames: string[], index: number, subforms, resolve, reject)
{
    let onErrorOrWarning = (serverMsg: ServerResponse) =>
    {
        if (serverMsg.type == ServerResponseType.Warning)
        {
            //always approve warnings when open subform one after the other.
            serverMsg.form.warningConfirm(1);
        }
        else
        {
            this.errorAndWarningMsgHandler(serverMsg);
        }
    }
    let subformName = subformNames[index];
    this.startSubFormAndGetRows(parentForm, subformName, onErrorOrWarning).then(
        (subform: Form) =>
        {
            this.endForm(subform).then(
                res =>
                {
                    let nextIndex = index + 1;
                    subforms[subformName] = subform;
                    if (subformNames[nextIndex] != null)
                    {
                        this.getOneSubForm(parentForm, subformNames, nextIndex, subforms, resolve, reject);
                    }
                    else
                    {
                        resolve(subforms);
                    }
                },
                (reason: ServerResponse) =>
                {
                    this.rejectionHandler(reason, reject);
                });
        },
        (reason: ServerResponse) =>
        {
            this.rejectionHandler(reason, reject);
        });
}
/** Gets a form and initializes its subforms if it has any.
 * If the wanted row is not a new one, subforms rows will be retrieved as well.  */
getSubForms(form: Form, subformNames: string[], rowInd): Promise<any>
{
    return new Promise((resolve, reject) =>
    {
        //let subformNames = Object.keys(form.subforms);
        if (subformNames.length == 0 || this.getIsNewRow(form, rowInd))
        {
            resolve();
        }
        else
        {
            this.getOneSubForm(form, subformNames, 0, {}, resolve, reject);
        }
    });
}

/** Clears subform rows of a specific item.
  * Should be called when leaving the details page */
clearSubforms(subforms)
{
    for (var subform in subforms)
    {
        this.clearLocalRows(subforms[subform]);
    }
}
/** Starts the wanted subform and sets the activeRow to the given index. */
editSubFormRow(parentForm: Form, formName, rowInd): Promise<any>
{
    return new Promise((resolve, reject) =>
    {
        this.startSubform(parentForm, formName).then(
            subform =>
            {
                if (rowInd != null)
                {
                    this.setActiveRow(subform, rowInd).then(
                        result =>
                        {
                            resolve();
                        },
                        (reason: ServerResponse) => { this.rejectionHandler(reason, reject); });
                }
                else
                {
                    resolve();
                }
            },
            (reason: ServerResponse) => { this.rejectionHandler(reason, reject); });
    });
}
/** Starts the wanted subform and creates a new row. */
addNewSubFormRow(parentForm: Form, subformName): Promise<any>
{
    return new Promise((resolve, reject) =>
    {
        this.startSubform(parentForm, subformName).then(
            (subform: Form) =>
            {
                this.newRow(subform).then(
                    newRowInd =>
                    {
                        resolve(newRowInd);
                    },
                    (reason: ServerResponse) =>
                    {
                        this.rejectionHandler(reason, reject);
                    });
            },
            (reason: ServerResponse) =>
            {
                this.rejectionHandler(reason, reject);
            });
    });
}
/**
  * Deletes a subForm item according to the rowInd.
 1. Starts sub form
 2. Set item to be active
 3. Deletes item
 4. Ends sub form.
 */
deleteSubFormListRow(parentForm: Form, subformName, rowInd): Promise<any>
{
    return new Promise((resolve, reject) =>
    {

        this.startSubform(parentForm, subformName)
            .then(subform =>
            {
                return this.deleteListRow(subform, rowInd);
            })
            .then(res =>
            {
                return this.endForm(this.getForm(subformName));
            })
            .then(()=>resolve())
            .catch((reason: ServerResponse) =>
            {
                this.endForm(this.getForm(subformName));
                reject(reason);
            });
    });
}

//************Filter ****************

/** Builds a filter for a search string according to the columnNames (up to 4) */
buildSearchFilter(form: Form, columnNames: string[], search: string)
{
    let filter: Filter = {
        or: 1,
        ignorecase: 1,
        QueryValues: []
    }
    for (var col in columnNames)
    {
        let queryValue: QueryValue = {
            field: columnNames[col],
            fromval: search + '*',
            toval: '',
            op: '=',
            sort: 0,
            isdesc: 0
        }
        filter.QueryValues.push(queryValue);
    }
    if (filter.QueryValues.length == 0)
    {
        return null;
    }
    return filter;
}

/** Sets a filter on the form for a search string **/
setFilter(form: Form, columnNames: string[], search: string): Promise<any>
{
    return new Promise((resolve, reject) =>
    {
        //replace * or % in the begining of search string so the search won't be too heavy
        search = search.replace(/^[\*|%]+/, '');
        if (search == null || search.trim() == '')
        {
            this.clearSearchFilter(form).then(() =>
            {
                this.getRowsAndReplace(form).then(
                    rows =>
                    {
                        resolve(rows);
                    }, (reason: ServerResponse) => { this.rejectionHandler(reason, reject); });
            }, (reason: ServerResponse) => { this.rejectionHandler(reason, reject); });
        }
        else
        {
            let filter = this.buildSearchFilter(form, columnNames, search);
            if (filter == null)
            {
                reject();
            }
            else
            {
                this.setSearchFilter(form, filter).then(
                    () =>
                    {
                        this.getRowsAndReplace(form).then(
                            rows =>
                            {
                                resolve(rows);
                            },
                            (reason: ServerResponse) => 
                            {
                                this.rejectionHandler(reason, reject);
                            });
                    },
                    (reason: ServerResponse) => 
                    {
                        this.rejectionHandler(reason, reject);
                    });
            }
        }
    });
}

/** Clears search filter for the current form **/
clearSearchFilter(form: Form): Promise<any>
{
    return new Promise((resolve, reject) =>
    {
        form.clearSearchFilter().then(
            () =>
            {

                resolve();
            },
            (reason: ServerResponse) =>
            {
                this.rejectionHandler(reason, reject);

            });
    });
}

/** Sets search filter for rows retrievel **/
setSearchFilter(form: Form, filter: Filter)
{
    return new Promise((resolve, reject) =>
    {
        form.setSearchFilter(filter).then(
            () =>
            {

                resolve();
            },
            (reason: ServerResponse) =>
            {
                this.rejectionHandler(reason, reject);

            });
    });
}
//************ Text *********************/
/** Saves text to a text form
  * Adds the text to the existing text with the date + signiture */
saveText(form: Form, text): Promise<any>
{
    return new Promise((resolve, reject) =>
    {
        form.saveText(text, 1, 1, 0).then(
            (result) =>
            {
                resolve();
            },
            (reason: ServerResponse) =>
            {
                this.rejectionHandler(reason, reject);

            });
    });
}
// ************** Files *********************

/** Uploads a single file (from javascript FileList object) */
uploadFile(form: Form, file): Observable<any>
{
    return Observable.create(observer =>
    {
        let onFulfilled = result =>
        {
            observer.next(result);
        };
        let onRejected = (reason: ServerResponse) =>
        {
            this.rejectionHandler(reason, observer.error);
        };
        form.uploadFile(file, onFulfilled, onRejected);
    });
}
/** Uploads an image as data-url 
  * recives the data and its type */
uploadImage(form: Form, imageData: string, type: string): Observable<any>
{
    return Observable.create(observer =>
    {
        let onsuccess = result =>
        {
            observer.next(result);
        };
        let onerror = () =>
        {
            observer.error();
        };
        form.uploadDataUrl(imageData, type, onsuccess, onerror);
    });
}
/** Cancels file or image upload. */
cancelUpload(form: Form)
{
    form.cancelFileUpload();
}
/** Gets a relative path of a file and returns its full path. */
getFileUrl(form: Form, currentSrc): any
{
    if (form == null)
        return "#";
    return form.getFileUrl(currentSrc);
}

// ************** Direct Activations *********************

/**
 * Executes a direct activation 'activationName'.
 * @param {Form} form 
 * @param {string} activationName 
 * @param {string} type 
 * 
 * @memberOf FormService
 */
executeDirectActivation(form: Form, activationName: string, type: string): Promise<any>
{
    return new Promise((resolve, reject) =>
    {
        form.activateStart(activationName, type, this.procService.procProgress)
            .then(data => 
            {
                return this.procService.procSuccess(data)
            })
            .then(() => 
            {
                return form.activateEnd();
            })
            .then(() =>
            {
                return resolve();
            })
            .catch(reason =>
            {
                this.messageHandler.showErrorOrWarning(true, reason.text);
                form.activateEnd().then(() => this.rejectionHandler(reason, reject));
            });
    });
}
}//end of formService

<br/>
<br/>